***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Static binding is the binding which can be resolved at compile time by compiler . It is also known as early binding because binding takes place before the program actual runs. When we perform method overloading that is an example of static binding.
In dynamic binding compilers is not able to resolve the binding at compile time. Dynamic binding is also known as late binding because happens during run time. Method Overloading is an example when dynamic binding is done
Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
In Compile time Polymorphism, the call is resolved by the compiler. In Run time Polymorphism, the call is not resolved by the compiler. Compile time  is also known as Static binding, Early binding and overloading as well. Run time
is also known as Dynamic binding, Late binding and overriding as well.
1Why do we need data structure?
Data structures are useful in storing and organizing the data in an efficient manner.

2Data structures are useful in storing and organizing the data in an efficient manner.
Searching. Inserting. Deleting. Sorting. Merging.

What is an array?

An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type. The length of an array is established when the array is created. After creation, its length is fixed.
What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class. We cannot change length of array once created in Java but ArrayList can be changed. We cannot store primitives in ArrayList, it can only store objects. But array can contain both primitives and objects in Java.

What is a LinkedList?
The LinkedList class is a collection which can contain many objects of the same type, just like the ArrayList

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. A linked list is a collection of objects known as a node where node consists of two parts, i.e., data and address. Array elements store in a contiguous memory location. Linked list elements can be stored anywhere in the memory or randomly stored.
What is a Queue?
Queue in Java is a linear ordered data structure that follows FIFO (First In, First Out) ordering of elements. This means that the element inserted first in the queue will be the first element to be removed. In Java, the queue is implemented as an interface that inherits the Collection interface.
What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Stacks in Data Structures is a linear type of data structure that follows the LIFO (Last-In-First-Out) principle and allows insertion and deletion operations from one end of the stack data structure, that is top
What is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first element is processed first and the newest element is processed last. LIFO is an abbreviation for last in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first element is processed last and the last element is processed first.

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer:A linear data structure includes arrays, linked lists,queues and stacks.
A non-linear data structure is made up of trees and graphs.

What is Recursion?
Answer:The process in which a function calls itself directly or indirectly is called recursion.
Recursion is an technique
with the help of which we can reduce the length of our code and make it easier to read and write.

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer: DFS is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structures.
BFS is an algorithm for searching a tree data structure for a node that satisfies a given property.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:Iterating each element of the given original array and copy one element at a time.
       Using clone() method.
       Using arraycopy() method.
       Using copyOf() method of Arrays class.

The ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is one of the most common errors in Java. It occurs when a program attempts to access an invalid index in an array i.e. an index that is less than 0, or equal to or greater than the length of the array

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer:HashMap is a part of the Java collection framework. It uses a technique called Hashing.
       It implements the map interface. It stores the data in the pair of Key and Value.
       HashMap contains an array of the nodes, and the node is represented as a class.
        It uses an array and LinkedList data structure internally for storing Key and Value.


What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer:HashMap is non-synchronized. It is not thread-safe and
can’t be shared between many threads without proper synchronization code
 Hashtable is synchronized. It is thread-safe and can be shared with many threads.
 HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values whereas Hashtable doesn’t allow any null key or value.
 HashMap is generally preferred over HashTable if thread synchronization is not needed.

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer:A graph data structure is a collection of nodes that have data and are connected to other nodes.

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer:A tree is non-linear and a hierarchical data structure
consisting of a collection of nodes such that each node of the tree stores
a value and a list of references to other nodes (the 'children').
This data structure is a specialized method to organize
and store data in the computer to be used more effectively
/
/


